README.md, before:

# Green Grocer

## Learning Goals

- Access and iterate over hashes
- Translate data from arrays to hashes
- Translate data from hashes to other hashes
- Count repeat items in a hash
- Perform calculations based on hash data

## Introduction

In this lab, we're going to simulate a grocery store checkout process. In most
modern grocery stores, a customer adds to a grocery cart as they walk through
the store. A cart can be thought of as a _collection_ of grocery items. Each
grocery item has specific attributes, such as a sale price, or whether or not
its on clearance. There may be multiples of the same item in the cart, mixed
together in no particular order.

When rung up at checkout, however, the customer would expect to get a receipt
with all of their items listed, the quantity of each item purchased, any coupons
or discounts that were applied, and the total of all items in the cart.

Your task in this lab is to write a set of methods to handle the different
pieces of the checkout process.

## Instructions

Implement a method `checkout` to calculate total cost of a cart of items,
applying discounts and coupons as necessary. The checkout method will rely on
three other methods: `consolidate_cart`, `apply_coupons`, and `apply_clearance`.

#### Write the `consolidate_cart` Method

The cart starts as an array of individual items. Translate it into a hash that
includes the counts for each item with the `consolidate_cart` method.

For instance, if the method is given the array below:

```ruby
[
  {"AVOCADO" => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => true }},
  {"AVOCADO" => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => true }},
  {"KALE"    => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => false}}
]
```

then the method should return the hash below:

```ruby
{
  "AVOCADO" => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => true, :count => 2},
  "KALE"    => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => false, :count => 1}
}
```

#### Write the `apply_coupons` Method

If the method is given a cart that looks like this:

```ruby
{
  "AVOCADO" => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => true, :count => 3},
  "KALE"    => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => false, :count => 1}
}
```

and a coupon for avocados that looks like this:

```ruby
{:item => "AVOCADO", :num => 2, :cost => 5.00}
```

then `apply_coupons` should return the following hash:

```ruby
{
  "AVOCADO" => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => true, :count => 1},
  "KALE"    => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => false, :count => 1},
  "AVOCADO W/COUPON" => {:price => 2.50, :clearance => true, :count => 2},
}
```

In this case, we have a 2 for $5.00 coupon, but 3 avocados counted in the
consolidated cart. Since the coupon only applies to 2 avocados, the cart
shows there is one remaining avocado at $3.00 and a count of _2_ discounted
avocados.

As we want to be consistent in the way our data is structured,
each item in the consolidated cart should include the price of _one_ of that
item. Even though the coupon states $5.00, since there are 2 avocados, the
price is listed as $2.50.

#### Write the `apply_clearance` Method

This method should discount the price of every item on clearance by twenty
percent.

For instance, if the `apply_clearance` method was given this cart:

```ruby
{
  "PEANUT BUTTER" => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => true,  :count => 2},
  "KALE"         => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => false, :count => 3}
  "SOY MILK"     => {:price => 4.50, :clearance => true,  :count => 1}
}
```

it should return a cart with clearance applied to peanut butter and soy milk:

```ruby
{
  "PEANUT BUTTER" => {:price => 2.40, :clearance => true,  :count => 2},
  "KALE"         => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => false, :count => 3}
  "SOY MILK"     => {:price => 3.60, :clearance => true,  :count => 1}
}
```

**Hint**: you may find the Float class' built in [round][round] method to be
helpful here to make sure your values align.

### Write the `checkout` Method

Create a `checkout` method that calculates the total cost of the consolidated
cart. Just like a customer arriving at a register with mixed up cart, this
method is given an array of unsorted items. In addition to an array of items,
`checkout` is also given an array of _coupons_.

The `checkout` method will need to utilize all the previous methods we've
written. It consolidates the cart, applies coupons, and applies discounts. Then,
it totals the cost of the entire cart, accounting for each item and their
prices, and returns this value.

When writing this method, make sure to address each step in the proper order:

- Consolidate the cart array into a hash

- Apply coupon discounts if the proper number of items are present

- Apply 20% discount if items are on clearance

In addition to coupons and clearance, our grocer store offers a deal for
customers buying lots of items: if, after all coupons and discounts, the cart's
total is over $100, the customer gets an additional 10% off. Apply this
discount when appropriate.

## Conclusion

Utilizing arrays and hashes is key when working with a lot of data. With our
knowledge of iteration and data manipulation, we can do all sorts of things with
this data. We can build methods that access that data and modify only what we
want. We can extract additional information, as we did here calculating a total.
We can take data that isn't helpful to us and restructure it to be _exactly_
what we need.

## Reward

- [round][round]

[round]: https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.1.2/Float.html#method-i-round

<p data-visibility='hidden'>View <a href='https://learn.co/lessons/green_grocer'>Green Grocer</a> on Learn.co and start learning to code for free.</p>

Commit message:

clarifies example for apply_coupon

README.md, after:

# Green Grocer

## Learning Goals

- Access and iterate over hashes
- Translate data from arrays to hashes
- Translate data from hashes to other hashes
- Count repeat items in a hash
- Perform calculations based on hash data

## Introduction

In this lab, we're going to simulate a grocery store checkout process. In most
modern grocery stores, a customer adds to a grocery cart as they walk through
the store. A cart can be thought of as a _collection_ of grocery items. Each
grocery item has specific attributes, such as a sale price, or whether or not
its on clearance. There may be multiples of the same item in the cart, mixed
together in no particular order.

When rung up at checkout, however, the customer would expect to get a receipt
with all of their items listed, the quantity of each item purchased, any coupons
or discounts that were applied, and the total of all items in the cart.

Your task in this lab is to write a set of methods to handle the different
pieces of the checkout process.

## Instructions

Implement a method `checkout` to calculate total cost of a cart of items,
applying discounts and coupons as necessary. The checkout method will rely on
three other methods: `consolidate_cart`, `apply_coupons`, and `apply_clearance`.

#### Write the `consolidate_cart` Method

The cart starts as an array of individual items. Translate it into a hash that
includes the counts for each item with the `consolidate_cart` method.

For instance, if the method is given the array below:

```ruby
[
  {"AVOCADO" => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => true }},
  {"AVOCADO" => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => true }},
  {"KALE"    => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => false}}
]
```

then the method should return the hash below:

```ruby
{
  "AVOCADO" => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => true, :count => 2},
  "KALE"    => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => false, :count => 1}
}
```

#### Write the `apply_coupons` Method

Write an `apply_coupons` method that takes in a cart and an _Array_ of 
coupons, applying the coupons _if_ appropriate.

If the method is given a cart that looks like this:

```ruby
{
  "AVOCADO" => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => true, :count => 3},
  "KALE"    => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => false, :count => 1}
}
```

and an Array with a single coupon for avocados that looks like this:

```ruby
[{:item => "AVOCADO", :num => 2, :cost => 5.00}]
```

then `apply_coupons` should return the following hash:

```ruby
{
  "AVOCADO" => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => true, :count => 1},
  "KALE"    => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => false, :count => 1},
  "AVOCADO W/COUPON" => {:price => 2.50, :clearance => true, :count => 2},
}
```

In this case, we have a 2 for $5.00 coupon, but 3 avocados counted in the
consolidated cart. Since the coupon only applies to 2 avocados, the cart
shows there is one remaining avocado at $3.00 and a count of _2_ discounted
avocados.

As we want to be consistent in the way our data is structured,
each item in the consolidated cart should include the price of _one_ of that
item. Even though the coupon states $5.00, since there are 2 avocados, the
price is listed as $2.50.

#### Write the `apply_clearance` Method

This method should discount the price of every item on clearance by twenty
percent.

For instance, if the `apply_clearance` method was given this cart:

```ruby
{
  "PEANUT BUTTER" => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => true,  :count => 2},
  "KALE"         => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => false, :count => 3}
  "SOY MILK"     => {:price => 4.50, :clearance => true,  :count => 1}
}
```

it should return a cart with clearance applied to peanut butter and soy milk:

```ruby
{
  "PEANUT BUTTER" => {:price => 2.40, :clearance => true,  :count => 2},
  "KALE"         => {:price => 3.00, :clearance => false, :count => 3}
  "SOY MILK"     => {:price => 3.60, :clearance => true,  :count => 1}
}
```

**Hint**: you may find the Float class' built in [round][round] method to be
helpful here to make sure your values align.

### Write the `checkout` Method

Create a `checkout` method that calculates the total cost of the consolidated
cart. Just like a customer arriving at a register with mixed up cart, this
method is given an array of unsorted items. In addition to an array of items,
`checkout` is also given an array of _coupons_.

The `checkout` method will need to utilize all the previous methods we've
written. It consolidates the cart, applies coupons, and applies discounts. Then,
it totals the cost of the entire cart, accounting for each item and their
prices, and returns this value.

When writing this method, make sure to address each step in the proper order:

- Consolidate the cart array into a hash

- Apply coupon discounts if the proper number of items are present

- Apply 20% discount if items are on clearance

In addition to coupons and clearance, our grocer store offers a deal for
customers buying lots of items: if, after all coupons and discounts, the cart's
total is over $100, the customer gets an additional 10% off. Apply this
discount when appropriate.

## Conclusion

Utilizing arrays and hashes is key when working with a lot of data. With our
knowledge of iteration and data manipulation, we can do all sorts of things with
this data. We can build methods that access that data and modify only what we
want. We can extract additional information, as we did here calculating a total.
We can take data that isn't helpful to us and restructure it to be _exactly_
what we need.

## Reward

- [round][round]

[round]: https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.1.2/Float.html#method-i-round

<p data-visibility='hidden'>View <a href='https://learn.co/lessons/green_grocer'>Green Grocer</a> on Learn.co and start learning to code for free.</p>
